= WatirGrid

WatirGrid allows for distributed testing across a grid network using Watir.

== Getting Started
To install WatirGrid:
  gem install watirgrid

=== The Basics

WatirGrid allows a local client to control remote Watir objects in parallel, hosted by *providers* on a grid network, via a central *controller*.

==== Key Terminology
The *controller* implements a repository of tuples (tuple space) that can be accessed concurrently. The controller also hosts a *ring* *server* which advertises these tuples across a grid network making it loosely coupled. 

Typically you will host one controller on a central machine. You will normally connect to this controller via a contoller_uri. You can also find this controller by its ring server, using a UDP broadcast for the ring server port.

The *providers* make remote Watir objects available to the tuple space hosted by the *controller*. Typically you will host one or many providers on your grid network, for example, each PC may become a single provider of a Watir tuple in the form of an Internet Explorer, Firefox, Safari or WebDriver browser object.

==== WatirGrid IS
- A lightweight, pure Ruby implementation of distributed computing using DRb and Rinda.
- A simple way to control remote Watir objects in parallel.
- Cross platform friendly and works on Windows, OSX or Linux.
- Open source, you're already looking in the right place if you want the source code.
- WebDriver friendly, thanks to the wire protocol, WatirGrid happily runs with WebDriver implementations such as watir-webdriver and selenium-webdriver.

==== WatirGrid IS NOT
- A "grid management" system. If you're looking to control individual resources, such as starting and stopping workstations or VMs you should take a look at Selenium Grid[http://selenium-grid.seleniumhq.org/].

==== ATTENTION Ruby 1.9.x users

Strings are no longer enumerable in Ruby 1.9.2 so you may see errors like this:

```
NoMethodError: undefined method each' for "192.168.0.134":String
from C:/RailsInstaller/Ruby1.9.2/lib/ruby/1.9.1/rinda/ring.rb:180:inlookup_ring
```

The Ruby core library for Rinda is broken as it incorrectly uses the each method on a string. Without resorting to monkey patches, you can avoid this error in watirgrid by not using the DRb broadcast methods used in a lookup. This happens when you *don't* specify a controller URI. To avoid this:

1. Specify the controller URI if starting a provider from the command line

  provider -c druby://203.51.48.187:11235 -d webdriver -b chrome
  I, [2011-11-01 20:25:25 #49264]  INFO -- : Provider started on   : druby://203.51.48.187:54289
  I, [2011-11-01 20:25:25 #49264]  INFO -- : Controller found on   : druby://203.51.48.187:11235
  I, [2011-11-01 20:25:25 #49264]  INFO -- : Provider registered   : druby://203.51.48.187:11235

2. Specify the controller URI if staring a provider programatically

  provider = Provider.new(:driver => 'webdriver', :controller_uri => 'druby://203.51.48.187:11235')

3. And always specify the controller URI when instantiating your grid!

  Watir::Grid.control(:browser_type => 'firefox', :controller_uri => 'druby://127.0.0.1:1234') do |browser, index|
    browser.goto "http://google.com"
    browser.close
  end

Starting without a controller URI will probably be deprecated in the next release anyway.

=== Simple Example

Pick a server to host the *controller* for the ring server and execute the following:
  $ controller

This should find your external facing IP and start the *controller*:
  I, [2011-04-09 18:06:19 #1971]  INFO -- : Controller started on : druby://127.0.0.1:11235

On each remote machine, host the *provider* for the distributed (DRb) Watir object:
  $  provider -d watir -c druby://127.0.0.1:11235

This should find the recently started *controller* and register the *provider*:
  I, [2011-04-09 18:06:26 #1972]  INFO -- : Provider started on   : druby://127.0.0.1:11236
  I, [2011-04-09 18:06:26 #1972]  INFO -- : Controller found on   : druby://127.0.0.1:11235
  I, [2011-04-09 18:06:26 #1972]  INFO -- : Provider registered   : druby://127.0.0.1:11235

You will now be able to execute commands across remote browsers on your grid network.

e.g.
  require 'watirgrid'

  Watir::Grid.control(:controller_uri => 'druby://127.0.0.1:11235') do |browser, id|
    puts "My remote browser id is #{id}"
    browser.goto("http://www.google.com")
    browser.text_field(:name, 'q').set("watirgrid")
    browser.button(:name, "btnI").click
  end

You may wish to host the controller and providers on different machines in a real scenario. You can specify things like server hostnames, ports and access control lists for each of the different types of servers. For more help see:
  $  controller --help
  Usage: controller [options]

  Advanced Options:
      -h, --drb HOST                   Specify the DRb host for this controller to bind to.
      -p, --drb-port PORT              Specify the DRb port for this controller to listen on.
      -H, --ring-server HOST           Specify the ring server host for this controller to bind to.
      -P, --ring-server-port PORT      Specify the ring server port for this controller to listen on.
      -a, --access-control-list ACL    Specify a comma separated Access Control List
      -l, --log LEVEL                  Specify the logging level:
                                         - DEBUG
                                         - INFO
                                         - ERROR
          --help                       Show this message

  $  provider --help
  Usage: provider -d DRIVER [options]

  Basic Options:
      -d, --driver TYPE                Specify driver type to use on this provider:
                                         - watir
                                         - webdriver
                                         - selenium
                                         - firewatir
                                         - safariwatir
      -c, --controller URI             Specify the controller URI to register this provider on e.g.:
                                         - druby://127.0.0.1:11235
      -b, --browser TYPE               Specify the browser type to start when using webdriver or selenium:
                                         - firefox
                                         - chrome
                                         - ie

  Advanced Options:
      -h, --drb HOST                   Specify the DRb host for this provider to bind to.
      -p, --drb-port PORT              Specify the DRb port for this provider to listen on.
      -H, --ring-server HOST           Optionally specify the ring server host if not using controller URI.
      -P, --ring-server-port PORT      Optionally specify the ring server port if not using controller URI.
      -a, --access-control-list ACL    Specify a comma separated Access Control List
      -l, --log LEVEL                  Specify the logging level:
                                         - DEBUG
                                         - INFO
                                         - ERROR
          --help                       Show this message

== Copyright

Copyright (c) 2009-2011 Tim Koopmans. See LICENSE for details.
